script file permissions.
Now,
this is not just theoretical or concept or standard that I'm trying to explain it to you.
This is actually mandatory.
You need to have the right permission to execute a script and to and to have a proper
permissions on the script file itself.
So all scripts to be executed should have a proper execute.
Herbal file permissions.
And those are,
for example,
if you see here it's read,
write and X is for execute herbal meaning the route.
The person who created this group can execute it.
Then read Dash X meaning the group who belongs to the user or the user belongs to a group,
has a right to read and execute this crew and the last one are the other people who do not
belong to your group or there are not you.
They could also execute that script and read it.
But of course they cannot write it because you don't see that w and W in the middle of
group and others.
So every time you create a script,
you need to assigned the execute herbal permission.
Okay,
so now you're probably thinking,
haven I create a script?
Why can't it.
Get a signed by default.
Executed permission Question.
But the problem is that whenever you create a script in Lennox or whenever you create ah,
file,
I should say in Lenox,
by default,
it does not assign execute herbal permissions because it doesn't want you to make a mistake
and executed something by mistake and corrupt your file system.
That's why it doesn't give the executable permissions.
You have to sign them yourself.
Okay,
now,
I created a script.
Now,
how do you change the permissions?
Simply the command to change the permission is CH model A plus X and the name of the script
.
A stands for all.
Everybody should have executed Bill permission off the script I use.
I prefer,
um,
letters as a our,
g or Oh,
for user group and others.
There are other people,
or you probably are familiar with the digits as well.
Like 65567 Something like that.
Which I I I'm not too much familiar.
I try to follow something that I am very familiar with,
and I would like to teach you something that I know.
Anyway,
if you are comfortable with your own way of saying Permission,
be my guest.
You feel free to use that Now let's some see.
If I log into my machine and I create a script,
then how can we change permission?
So let's see.
Where is my Lennox machine?
My Lennox machine is right here,
and I am in my slash home slash I have solved slash script directory.
I wanted to create a script and there are few ways you could create a file first.
You always create a file.
You could touch it.
You could be I it and you could echo it and output to a file The different boys,
whichever way you want to start creating a scrip.
So first thing I will use a very basic is touch And the name of the script.
Let's say script name is a party script had entered.
Now when I do,
at S minus lt are you'll notice the script that I had before.
Hello.
World has the execute herbal permission,
right?
This is the third but you see your way here.
The new script that I created which is Apache script,
does not have the execute herbal permission.
So in order for you to run that script you need to assign execute herbal permission to
assign the permission.
You have to run the command change marred as I said,
I'll use for all.
Everybody should have executed Herbal plus X for execute Herbal The name off the scrip hit
.
Enter now duelist minor sell to your You will see the name off the script and it's correct
Permission.
This is how you assigned permission?
Very easy to do that.
If you're already in Lenox,
you've been using Lennox.
You probably like ho.
I know that.
Perfect.
If you know that,
let's move on.